WinForms Repo Readme update (#11060)
dotnet/winforms: README.md

Windows Forms also provides one of the most productive ways to create desktop applications based on the visual designer provided in Visual Studio. It enables drag-and-drop of visual controls and other similar functionality that make it easy to build desktop applications.

## Windows Forms Out-Of-Process Designer

> For information about the WinForms Designer supporting the .NET runtime and the changes between the .NET Framework Designer (supporting .NET Framework up to version 4.8.1) vs. the .NET Designer (supporting .NET 6, 7, 8, 9+), please see [Windows Forms Designer Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/desktop/winforms/controls-design/designer-differences-framework?view=netdesktop-8.0) as an starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information about the WinForms Designer supporting the .NET runtime and the changes between the .NET Framework Designer (supporting .NET Framework up to version 4.8.1) vs. the .NET Designer (supporting .NET 6, 7, 8, 9+), please see [Windows Forms Designer Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/desktop/winforms/controls-design/designer-differences-framework?view=netdesktop-8.0).
```

> **Important:** As a Third Party Control Vendor, when you migrated controls from .NET Framework to .NET, you're control libraries _at runtime_ are expected to work as before in the context of the respective new TFM (special modernization or security changes in the TFM kept aside, but those are rare breaking changes). Depending on the richness of your control's design-time support, the migration of control designers from .NET Framework to .NET might need to take a series of areas with breaking changes into account. The provided link points out additional resources which help in that migration process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Important:** As a Third Party Control Vendor, when you migrate controls from .NET Framework to .NET, your control libraries _at runtime_ are expected to work as before in the context of the respective new TFM (special modernization or security changes in the TFM kept aside, but those are rare breaking changes). Depending on the richness of your control's design-time support, the migration of control designers from .NET Framework to .NET might need to take a series of areas with breaking changes into account. The provided link points out additional resources which help in that migration process.
```

## Relationship to .NET Framework

This codebase is a fork of the Windows Forms code in the .NET Framework 4.8. 
We started the migration process by targeting .NET Core 3.0, when we've strived to bring the two runtimes to a parity. Since then, we've done a number of changes, including [breaking changes](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/compatibility/winforms), which diverged the two. For more information about breaking changes, see the [Porting guide][porting-guidelines].

## The bar for innovation and new features

> WinForms is a technology which was originally introduced as a part of .NET Framework 1.0 on February 13th, 2002. It's primary and foremost trait was and is to be a Rapid Application Tool for Windows based Apps, and that principle sentiment has not changed over the years. WinForms at the time addressed perfectly developer's request for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WinForms is a technology which was originally introduced as a part of .NET Framework 1.0 on February 13th, 2002. It's primary focus was and is to be a Rapid Application Tool for Windows based Apps, and that principal sentiment has not changed over the years. WinForms at the time addressed developer's requests for
```

> * A Framework to carrie stable, monolithic Line of Business Apps, even with extremely complicated and complex domain-specific workflows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A framework for stable, monolithic Line of Business Apps, even with extremely complicated and complex domain-specific workflows
```

> * The ability to easy provide rich and accessibility-complient UIs according to the Zeitgeist at the time (realisticly from .NET Framework 2.0 on)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The ability to easily provide rich and accessibility-compliant UIs
```

> * A safe and - over the first 3 versions of .NET Framework - increasingly performant way to communicate accros process boundaries via .NET Remoting and later Windows Communication Services, or access on-site databases via ADO.NET providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A safe and - over the first 3 versions of .NET Framework - increasingly performant way to communicate across process boundaries via .NET Remoting and later Windows Communication Services, or access on-site databases via ADO.NET providers.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm sort of concerned about this bullet point in general. Calling out remoting is going to be confusing now that remoting is no longer supported.

Reviewer 3: I agree with @JeremyKuhne, I would cut this bullet altogether, honestly.

> * A very easy to use, visual what-you-see-is-what-you-get-Designer, which requires next to none ramp-up time, and was primarily focused to support 96 DPI resolution-based, pixel-coordinated drag & drop design strategies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A very easy to use, visual what-you-see-is-what-you-get designer, which requires little ramp-up time, and was primarily focused to support 96 DPI resolution-based, pixel-coordinated drag & drop design strategies.
```

> * An incredible flexibel, .NET reflection-based Designer extensibility model, utilizing the .NET Component Model to its extremes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A flexible, .NET reflection-based Designer extensibility model, utilizing the .NET Component Model.
```

> * A special concept for visual Controls and Components, which provide their own design-time functionality through Control Designers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Visual Controls and Components, which provide their own design-time functionality through Control Designers
```

> Over time though, and with a growing need to address working scenarios with multi-monitor work places, monitors with way higher resolution, remoting technologies, which were no longer safe enough for Line-of-Business Apps in certain areas, a changing processor technology, which provided more processor cores rather than higher clock-frequencies, and much more, certain areas in WinForms needed to modernized. But that's just one aspect. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Over time though, and with a growing need to address working scenarios with multi-monitor, high resolution monitors, changing remoting technology requirements, and much more, WinForms needed to be modernized.
```

> The other one is Windows itself: When WinForms came out, it needed Windows 2000 as a reasonable choice for the operating system to run the Developer tools on. Keep in mind, even WinForms .NET Framework 2.0 was able to run under Windows 98! Internal Memory-Management at the time had to be completely different, than it is today. But not only that: From Windows 98/Windows 2000 there were Windows XP, Windows XP SP3 (which was actually a new OS), Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8 until we arrived in the current Windows 10/11 era. The challenge with all that: WinForms is a wrapper around Windows' Win32-API, and that API lived extremely over the time. So, the Window's teams primary tasks was almost to make sure, that WinForms kepts running in the same quality and performance to not degrade the security, responsiveness and process-times of its existing apps.

Author: ```suggestion
And then there is the evolution of Windows: When new versions of Windows introduce new or change existing APIs or technologies - WinForms needs to keep up and adjust their APIs accordingly.
```

> The other one is Windows itself: When WinForms came out, it needed Windows 2000 as a reasonable choice for the operating system to run the Developer tools on. Keep in mind, even WinForms .NET Framework 2.0 was able to run under Windows 98! Internal Memory-Management at the time had to be completely different, than it is today. But not only that: From Windows 98/Windows 2000 there were Windows XP, Windows XP SP3 (which was actually a new OS), Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8 until we arrived in the current Windows 10/11 era. The challenge with all that: WinForms is a wrapper around Windows' Win32-API, and that API lived extremely over the time. So, the Window's teams primary tasks was almost to make sure, that WinForms kepts running in the same quality and performance to not degrade the security, responsiveness and process-times of its existing apps.

Reviewer 2: From here on I don't think the info is helpful. It's too specific and way too detailed. Something more like:

```
We'll continue to invest in making WinForms usable and compliant in current environments while doing our best to maintain compatibility for existing applications. We'll make utilizing modern coding practices and patterns easier and give you the best possible platform for building Win32 based Windows desktop applications.
```

Author: I think it's important to just point out, that when they modernize, we often need to adjust, since we're depending. But I'll shorten that!

Reviewer 3: agreed. Let's keep it brief here and focus on the fact that we're working to provide a SAFE, compliant, etc. way to keep evolving/keep pace with the operating system evolution.

And exactly **that** is still the primary motivation for once to modernize and innovate, but also the bar to reach for potential innovation areas we either need or want to consider:

* Areas, where for example for security concerns, the Windows team needed to take an depending area out-of-proc, and we see and extreme performance hit in WinForms Apps running under a new Service Pack or a new Windows Version

> * New requests from governments in the area of accessibility

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* New features to comply with updated industry standards for accessibility.
```

> * HighDPI and per Monitor V2-Scenarios, since they can quickly impose accessibility impediments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* HighDPI and per Monitor V2-Scenarios.
```
I don't think we need to explain why for this area😄

> * Picking up changed or extended Win32 Control functionality, to keep controls in WinForms working the way, the Windows team wants them to be used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Picking up changed or extended Win32 Control functionality, to keep controls in WinForms working the way the Windows team wants them to be used.
```

> * Addressing Performance and Security issues in the underlying render layers WinForms is based on, like GDI, GDI+, conflicting rendering spots like the Windows Desktop Manager

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Addressing Performance and Security issues
```

> * Addressing accessibility and visual contrast issues like providing a general guide for implementing dark mode, which integrates in the current OS as seemless as possible without changing existing control behaviors or principle control rendering approaches

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
I don't think you need to address accessibility twice in this. I think the first bullet also would cover contrast ratios

* Introducing ways to support asynchronous calls interatively, to enable apps to pick up migration paths via Windows APIs projection/Windows Desktop Bridge, enable scenarios for async WebAPI, SignalR, Azure Function, etc. calls, so WinForms backends can modernized and even migrated to the cloud.

What would not make the bar: 

> * New functionality, which modern Desktop UIs like WPF or WinUI clearly have already

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* New functionality which modern Desktop UIs like WPF or WinUI clearly have already
```
